Going into the Iliad assessment, I wasn’t sure what to expect. All I knew was that I was going to play CEO for three hours and that three hours sounded like an eternity. I thought that it would just be some waste of time and that I wouldn’t really gain much from it. In reality, however, I gained a lot from this assessment. Rushing around to meetings, responding to inbox items, and coming up with presentations on the fly was <i>much</i> more stressful than I would have imagined. The three hours flew by quicker than I expected, mostly because I was busy the entire time. In fact, I even felt like I didn’t have enough time and only got through 6 or 7 of the in-basket items. I felt it was tough to get a lot of words in during the meetings; there was only a short amount of time for each meeting and not a whole lot of opportunity to make meaningful contributions. As per usual for me, I clammed up a bit and didn’t say much during the meetings. I usually let other people take the leader role and kind of sat back and went with the flow. When I got my scores back, I wasn’t too surprised to read what I had received.

<strong>Assessing My Results</strong>
Before the actual assessment began, we had to give ourselves ratings based on how strong we felt in categories of Initiative, Decision Making, Organization, Communication, and Teamwork. I felt I was relatively strong in all areas, but not exceptional, and gave myself scores ranging from 70 to 85 out of 100. The assessment center, clearly, did not agree much with me (not to my surprise): their scores ranged from 41 to 82, with the average being around 50. I had overshot myself on every category by about 20 points except for communication, where the center ranked me 2 points higher than I had ranked myself. After reading these initial results, I was pretty sure where the rest of the results were going. Though I scored relatively high in the in-basket and customer service meeting categories (74 and 72), I scored a 34 in both CEO selection meetings and the presentation. These are relative scores comparing myself to the other kids who were in my group. Next, the center gave individual scores for detailed behaviors, which I mostly agree with. They scored skills like courtesy, speaking clearly and confidently, arriving punctually, and sophistication of presentation. While giving my presentation, I knew I was not doing well. Public speaking has never been a strength of mine and although it was only in front of three other strangers, I was still uncomfortable. 

Of the two meetings, the presentation, and in-basket items, I felt I performed the best on the in-baskets. I performed well in prioritization, attention to detail, and ethical focus and sensitivity for all of the in-baskets. I wasn’t really surprised that I performed the best in the section that didn’t require much interfacing with people I had never met. I’m usually fairly quiet and reserved around strangers, and this occasion was no exception. I think the Iliad was a pretty eye-opening experience; it’s pretty clear that I should make some personality changes if I want to go into the business world!

Taking the Iliad was a valuable experience and I’m glad we got this opportunity. I wasn’t too surprised upon reading my own results; I performed better in the section that was to be done independently, and didn’t perform as well in the activities that involved talking with other people. The Iliad was a wake-up call for me, and I really need to improve upon my interpersonal confidence and skills. I didn’t feel very confident while in the meeting and while giving my presentation, mostly because I wasn’t very familiar with the material. I had only twenty or thirty minutes to learn about the material I’d be giving a 3-minute presentation about, and I definitely didn’t come close to 3 minutes of speaking time. The biggest lesson I took away from this assessment is that I need to be more confident, or at least <i>appear</i> more confident, while talking to people or giving a presentation. A little confidence goes a long way, and I can certainly tell that this is an area in which I need to improve.