Coming from the South Bronx, Majora Carter is certainly someone with firsthand experience in the deteriorating state of urban areas. In her talk, she went over the vicious cycle of why impoverished areas have such a problem with trash and why nothing is being done to fix it. Wealthier people have the money to be able to afford to avoid trash-filled, low-income areas. According to Carter, 40% of the entire city’s waste is in the South Bronx. Carter’s mission is to remind people that there is something beautiful about their neighborhood by giving them something beautiful to appreciate. 

Poverty, Carter said, is not just an economic issue; it is a social and political issue as well. It is multidimensional and cannot be lumped in with other economic issues. Throwing money at impoverished areas is not going to solve all of the problems in impoverished areas. In fact, development of poor neighborhoods usually leads to gentrification where the upper and middle class families move in and poor are just displaced, now with even less area to live. Carter wants to use her program, Sustainable South Bronx, as a catalyst to spark change and actual reform in impoverished neighborhoods. 
An interesting point that Carter brought up was that of the appearance of shops and stores in impoverished neighborhoods. Driving through Philly, I always notice ugly stores with strange names and “shady” storefronts and think that I certainly would not want to shop there. However, I just assumed that the people in these neighborhoods had no problem shopping at sketchy-looking stores, because that’s what is available to them, right? Wrong. People in these neighborhoods don’t want to spend at these suspicious stores and, therefore, don’t stimulate the economy. One aspect of improving poor and trash-filled areas is simply improving their aesthetics and making them places where people would want to spend their money.

Hearing a first-person perspective from these areas made me question how I personally viewed impoverished neighborhoods. I have always been of the view that these people living in impoverished areas are victims of circumstance. They were most likely born in these areas and, unfortunately, will most likely die in these areas. I’ve never thought of them as lazy poor people who are too unmotivated to get a job. Instead, I’ve recognized that it’s nearly impossible to get out of these areas due to vicious cycles of poverty and lack of opportunity. This is exactly what Carter wants everyone to do: consider the circumstances before passing judgment on people who live in the “ghetto.” Personally, I’m of the belief that the education system is the core of a society. If we are going to improve these trash-filled impoverished areas, we need to instill good values on the children from a young age. Education reform should not start at middle or high school level but instead at the Pre-K level. Values of environmental consciousness and taking pride in a clean neighborhood should be taught from a very young age. It is incredibly inspiring to see Majora Carter making a big difference in poor areas and working actively to improve society.