In today’s colloquium, we spent the majority of the time discussing The Start-Up of You and our own personal competitive advantages and what sets us apart. Answers from the class were incredibly unique; I had no idea I was in the same room as so many unique and interesting students. From electrical engineers to international travelers to a girl who speaks five languages, I was surrounded by all types of fascinating people. 

As we reviewed key parts of the book, I was interested by the nature of what the authors of the book were saying. Throughout high school I was constantly being asked “What do you want to do when you grow up?” and “Where do you want to work? Where do you want to live? Where do you see yourself after college? Do you want to travel? Do you want to go to grad school?” As a 17 year old, I didn’t want to think about the calculus test next week, let alone plan out the next ten years of my life. I figured I would just figure it out as it came along; I would cross that bridge when I got there. Friends around me were more concerned with potential R.O.I. on their major rather than discovering what they truly liked to do and were passionate about. 

Reid Hoffman and Ben Casnocha, on the other hand, had some different ideas. As a class we discussed the ins and outs of ABZ Planning, taking calculated risks, and how to properly plan your career. After reading The Start-Up of You, it was refreshing to hear that not every little detail in life needs to be planned out. It can’t be planned out. The world today is changing at an exponential rate. How can I plan out the next five, ten, fifteen years of my life when I have no idea what the business landscape will be like? This is what is discussed in the book. In order to be successful, I need to be adaptive. I need to be flexible. I need to be prepared. Most importantly, I need to find my competitive advantage. While it is important to figure out my aspirations and skills, unfortunately the market realities trump my values and assets. As a computer science major, I have been told by countless family and friends that I’ve picked a great major and that I’ll be sure to get a job when I graduate. However, I remain cautiously optimistic. Programming is certainly a passion of mine, and I enjoy coding and computer science immensely. Although CS is certainly a popular field today, who knows what will happen in the next four years? Perhaps some new disruptive technology will come out that trivializes the need for human programmers. Or maybe artificial intelligence will make great strides over the next few years and computers will be capable of programming themselves. The authors of The Start-Up of You advise to always keep your head on a swivel. I should always be ready to pivot in the direction of new and exciting opportunities. These pivots, however, should not be random; instead they should build upon my existing hard and soft assets. Throughout college, I plan on working towards my degree while not limiting myself to strictly computer science classes.

My favorite take-away from this book was the fact that the future cannot be planned. I need to adapt and grow my skillset to produce the greatest stream of opportunities throughout my professional career. I am excited to see what my future has in store!