For the rest of the day, we were guided around Wall Street on a walking tour, passing the New York Stock Exchange ( and the famous bull statue ), the Trump Tower, and countless other Wall Street landmarks. We all piled back into the bus to get ready for the next stop: our hotel, The Element. We had looked up pictures of the beautiful hotel and couldn’t wait to finally get there to see what the rooms were like. As soon as the bus started moving, however, Claudia got a call from The Element, saying that they couldn’t give us our rooms due to some problem with foreign residents and their visas. We were all pretty upset and worried about where we were going to sleep, but luckily we got some rooms at the DoubleTree close by. Instead of having a bed for every person, we had to fit four to a room and share beds with another person. We weren’t exactly thrilled at the thought, but that’s the way the cookie crumbles sometimes. We learned that, in life, you need to be adaptable. Things aren’t always going to go to plan, and that’s okay! 

Once we got back to the hotel, we had to change quickly and head over to the Smith School networking event. As a computer science major, I felt pretty out of place with all of the businessmen and accounting and finance majors. Coupled with the fact that I am very reserved when around strangers, I was pretty uncomfortable. Eventually, I struck up a conversation with an alum who was also a computer science major. Only four or five years out of college, he has a job at Spotify, my favorite music service and an incredibly popular music streaming application. He said every week he gets a dozen emails from headhunters looking for computer science majors and that there’s certainly no shortage of job opportunities. I suddenly got much more excited than I already was for the upcoming company visits on the following day. Getting paid to do what I love sounds like the dream, and the prospect of working for such a large company like Spotify was even more exciting!