After each class, there have been specific takeaways I’ve learned: how to apply the 3P framework, what a blue ocean is, the five skills of an innovator, and various topics and concepts. Looking at what I have learned holistically, there are a few major points about creativity and innovation that capture the essence of what I’ve learned…

<strong>Be Bold</strong>
A huge part of being creative and innovative is having the courage to be <strong>bold</strong>. As demonstrated by Tom and David Kelley in <i>Creative Confidence</i>, being creative is hard. It’s often difficult to be weird and to think outside the status quo. Being creative and innovative is all about being headstrong and sticking to your guns. If Steve Jobs had given up every time someone had called his ideas ridiculous and impossible, I wouldn’t be typing this on a MacBook with my iPhone sitting right in front of me. If David Kelley, founder of IDEO, had never had the courage to be weird and creative, IDEO wouldn’t be one of the most popular innovation design firms in the country. Being innovative involves being bold and having the courage to be creative, and this is one common trait shared by all innovators. 

<strong>Be Open-Minded</strong>
The backbone behind each trait of <i>The Innovator’s DNA</i> is being open minded and not being averse to new people and ideas. Associating requires an open mind to see connections between things that normal people would deem unrelated and irrelevant. Networking, and, more importantly, knowing <i>how</i> to network correctly as per the lessons found in <i>The Necessity of Strangers</i>, demands an openness to people of different backgrounds and cultures in order to get a full range of perspectives and opinions. Observing requires more than just watching; an innovator needs to know what to watch for. In order to observe effectively, an innovator needs to remove any biases and not look for things that he or she expects. Instead, he or she needs to have an open mind in order to fully obtain everything there is to learn from observation. Questioning, as well, requires open-mindedness: where most people would stop questioning is where an innovator learns the most. They can’t be averse to asking strange or seemingly obvious questions in order to gain a holistic view of the problem. Lastly, experimentation certainly requires the innovator to be open minded. Experimentation is all about trying new things, and without an open mind, it’s impossible to truly step out of your comfort zone and try something new and unexpected. In order to truly innovate, you need to have an open mind and not be averse to any idea or possibility, whether it be meeting strangers or trying a new way of approaching a problem or even finding a relationship between two unlike things, an open mind is necessary to truly innovate. 

<strong>Be Passionate</strong>
A common recurring theme between all the innovators we have learned about is that they all have loved what they are doing. Jobs had an affinity for both tech and entrepreneurship; Jeff Bezos is committed to giving people the best experience possible and revolves his entire company around the customer; Elon Musk is incredibly passionate about his companies like Tesla and SpaceX. As the old adage goes, “If you love your job, you’ll never have to work another day in your life.” One main reasons that innovators are successful is that they are truly passionate about what they do; going to work isn’t something that they dread but rather an event to anticipate. It’s been said that the main similarity between Steve Jobs and Elon Musk is that they both share “a rare form of design thinking powered by unfettered conviction.” In other words, they are both passionate about what they do and won’t let anything hold them back. Passion is certainly a commonality between all innovators.

Over the course of this class, we’ve discussed all types of innovators and frameworks. Of all of the tech giants and Silicon Valley celebrities and creative thinkers we’ve talked about, they all seem to share three traits: boldness, open-mindedness, and passion. In order to be innovative myself, I’ll definitely need to improve my skills in these three categories. Most importantly, I need to be able to stick to my guns when people challenge my ideas. In the world of innovation, confidence is truly the key.